It probably doesnt occur to most people that their lives have only ever happened one moment at time. Being in more than one place at once is obviously impossible, yet most of us have difficulty fully allowing ourselves to be only in the one place where we really are: here.

We often talk about having a dozen things to do at once, when in fact we seldom do more than one thing at once, or need to. Your to-do list only gets done one moment at a time, whether your moment-to-moment experience is a frantic and complex one, or a calm and simple one.

We would do very well to simply look at the present moment, ask ourselves what it requires, then calmly do that. Its hard to imagine an instance in life where this wouldnt be the best thing to do. Yet life usually seems so much more complicated than that.

Any moment you experience can be broken down into three simple qualities:

1) Your immediate physical surroundings right now

2) The physical feelings in your body right now

3) What youre thinking about right now

Your whole life is just a gradual turnover of these three aspects of experience. It seems more complicated than that because the third part (your thoughts) can create the appearance all kinds of content that isnt actually happening. You can lose track of whats real quite easily when you dont notice that youre only thinking.

You can be walking down a quiet street, with a cool breeze and a nice sunset as your backdrop, and be completely consumed by thoughts about something that happened earlier. On the way home from work, a driver in a pickup truck honked at you and gave you the finger, and you dont think you did anything wrong.

Without deciding to, you imagine a confrontation with this person. You start to get mad about societys entitlement issues around big vehicles and fossil fuels, and you think about how your car doesnt use that much gas compared to a truck, but one day you want to quit the long commute altogether. But you know that to do that youd have to move closer to work, which probably means moving into a high-rise, which you think you could get used to if it meant no more traffic jams, but your spouse would never go for it, and they probably dont allow dogs

This happens all the time. We get completely overcome by our thoughts, and the content of the thoughts seems nearer and more relevant than whats actually happening  the quiet street is almost gone from your experience, even though its right there. Usually we solve nothing with this kind of haphazard rumination. 